DEVELOPMENTS IN THE 2020 FRONT
DEVELOPMENTS IN THE 2020 FRONT THIS MORNING.
THIS MORNING. BETO O’ROURKE, WHO KNOWS WHAT HE
BETO O’ROURKE, WHO KNOWS WHAT HE IS GOING TO DO BUT ISN’T TELLING
IS GOING TO DO BUT ISN’T TELLING US YET, SENT A CLUE THIS
US YET, SENT A CLUE THIS MORNING.
MORNING. NBC NEWS CONFIRMING HE IS HEADED
NBC NEWS CONFIRMING HE IS HEADED OHIO AND WILL MAKE HIS FIRST
OHIO AND WILL MAKE HIS FIRST STOP IN THE HUK EYE STATE ON
STOP IN THE HUK EYE STATE ON SATURDAY.
SATURDAY. BEING SUPPORTIVE, A SUPPORTIVE
BEING SUPPORTIVE, A SUPPORTIVE DEMOCRAT, WHILE BEGINNINGGINNING
DEMOCRAT, WHILE BEGINNINGGINNING THERE IS BUZZ THIS MORNING HE
THERE IS BUZZ THIS MORNING HE MAY HAVE RECRUITED A TOP IOWA
MAY HAVE RECRUITED A TOP IOWA POLITICAL CONSULTANT.
POLITICAL CONSULTANT. AND SPEAKING OF ACTUAL SIGNS,
AND SPEAKING OF ACTUAL SIGNS, CHECK OUT THE ONES THAT WERE
CHECK OUT THE ONES THAT WERE WAITING FOR FOLKS AT THE JOE
WAITING FOR FOLKS AT THE JOE BIDEN EVENT TODAY.
BIDEN EVENT TODAY. RUN, JO
RUN, JO RUN, JOE, RUN.
RUN, JOE, RUN. SUSAN JONATHAN, DOUG IS WITH ME.
SUSAN JONATHAN, DOUG IS WITH ME. BETO IS GOING TOIZE.
BETO IS GOING TOIZE. IF HE IS GOING TO RUN, HE HAS
IF HE IS GOING TO RUN, HE HAS DONE EITHER A GREAT JOB OF
DONE EITHER A GREAT JOB OF BUILDING SUSPENSE OR TICKING
BUILDING SUSPENSE OR TICKING PEOPLE OFF WHO SAY, WOULD YOU
PEOPLE OFF WHO SAY, WOULD YOU JUST TELL US ALREADY?
JUST TELL US ALREADY? >> HE IS PRETTY CLEARLY GETTING
>> HE IS PRETTY CLEARLY GETTING IN, EVEN IF IT HASN’T BEEN
IN, EVEN IF IT HASN’T BEEN CONFIRMED YET.
CONFIRMED YET. THE QUESTION IS HOW HE WILL DO.
THE QUESTION IS HOW HE WILL DO. AND HE BRINGS TWO MAJOR ASSETS
AND HE BRINGS TWO MAJOR ASSETS TO THIS RACE BEYOND BEING A KIND
TO THIS RACE BEYOND BEING A KIND OF COMBINATION OF BOBBY KENNEDY
OF COMBINATION OF BOBBY KENNEDY AND BARACK OBAMA FOR HIS MOST
AND BARACK OBAMA FOR HIS MOST ARDENT SUPPORTERS.
ARDENT SUPPORTERS. ONE, HE CAN FILL ARENAS.
ONE, HE CAN FILL ARENAS. NOW, DIDN’T USED TO MATTER IN
NOW, DIDN’T USED TO MATTER IN AMERICAN POLITICS, LIKE NOBODY
AMERICAN POLITICS, LIKE NOBODY CARED IF MICHAEL DUKAKIS GOT
CARED IF MICHAEL DUKAKIS GOT 6,000 OR 4,000 PEOPLE TO HIS
6,000 OR 4,000 PEOPLE TO HIS EVENTS.
EVENTS. NOW
NOW NOWADAYS IT’S A WAY OF KEEPING
NOWADAYS IT’S A WAY OF KEEPING SCORE.
SCORE. RELATED TO THAT IS THAT HE HAS A
RELATED TO THAT IS THAT HE HAS A SMALL DONOR BASE.
SMALL DONOR BASE. THIS IS CRITICALLY IMPORTANT IN
THIS IS CRITICALLY IMPORTANT IN THIS CAMPAIGN BECAUSE IF YOU
THIS CAMPAIGN BECAUSE IF YOU LOSE A PRIMARY, YOUR BIG DONORS
LOSE A PRIMARY, YOUR BIG DONORS HEAD FOR THE HILLS.
HEAD FOR THE HILLS. YOUR SMALL DONORS STAY WITH YOU.
YOUR SMALL DONORS STAY WITH YOU. SO IT LETS YOU STAY IN THE
SO IT LETS YOU STAY IN THE PROCESS LONGER IF YOU HAVE A
PROCESS LONGER IF YOU HAVE A SMALL DONOR BASE.
SMALL DONOR BASE. >> SO, LET ME POINT OUT THE
>> SO, LET ME POINT OUT THE OTHER SIDE OF THAT.
OTHER SIDE OF THAT. OUR NBC TEAM REPORTS THAT
OUR NBC TEAM REPORTS THAT TECHNICALLY BETO HAS HIRED NO
TECHNICALLY BETO HAS HIRED NO STAFF.
STAFF. THE KEY FOLKS THAT WOULD BE IN
THE KEY FOLKS THAT WOULD BE IN THE CAMPAIGN ARE STILL
THE CAMPAIGN ARE STILL VOLUNTEERS.
VOLUNTEERS. THEY HAVE REPORTEDLY IDENTIFIED
THEY HAVE REPORTEDLY IDENTIFIED PEOPLE IN KEY STATES, BUT I
PEOPLE IN KEY STATES, BUT I GUESS THE QUESTION IS, IS THIS
GUESS THE QUESTION IS, IS THIS IS A NEW WAY OF RUNNING FOR
IS A NEW WAY OF RUNNING FOR PRESIDENT, OR WOULD HE START HIS
PRESIDENT, OR WOULD HE START HIS CAMPAIGN AT A DISADVANTAGE?
CAMPAIGN AT A DISADVANTAGE? >> WELL, HE RAN A VERY
>> WELL, HE RAN A VERY UNORTHODOX RACE FOR THE SENATE.
UNORTHODOX RACE FOR THE SENATE. HE DIDN’T HAVE CONSULTANTS.
HE DIDN’T HAVE CONSULTANTS. HE DIDN’T HAVE A POLLSTER.
HE DIDN’T HAVE A POLLSTER. HE RELIED A LOT ON VOLUNTEERS.
HE RELIED A LOT ON VOLUNTEERS. I AM NOT TOTALLY SHOCKED BY.
I AM NOT TOTALLY SHOCKED BY. >> THIS THE TRAIN HAS SORT OF
>> THIS THE TRAIN HAS SORT OF LEFT THE STATION BUT HE CAN
LEFT THE STATION BUT HE CAN CATCH UP, AND SO CAN JOE BIDEN.
CATCH UP, AND SO CAN JOE BIDEN. >> BUT JOE BIDEN HAS BEEN
>> BUT JOE BIDEN HAS BEEN PUTTING TOGETHER AN
PUTTING TOGETHER AN INFRASTRUCTURE.
INFRASTRUCTURE. THAT’S THE DIFFERENT.
THAT’S THE DIFFERENT. AND HE HAS THE CONTACTS THAT
AND HE HAS THE CONTACTS THAT BETO DOESN’T HAVE NATIONALLY.
BETO DOESN’T HAVE NATIONALLY. >> THAT’S RIGHT, AND A NAME I.D.
>> THAT’S RIGHT, AND A NAME I.D. >> YEAH.
>> YEAH. >> THAT BETO DOESN’T HAVE.
>> THAT BETO DOESN’T HAVE. I SAID THAT THE TRAIN HAS
I SAID THAT THE TRAIN HAS SLIGHTLY LEFT THE STATION.
SLIGHTLY LEFT THE STATION. I THINK HE CAN CATCH UP BASED
I THINK HE CAN CATCH UP BASED OFF OF, YOU KNOW, WHAT WE SAW IN
OFF OF, YOU KNOW, WHAT WE SAW IN TEXAS.
TEXAS. HIS EXCITEMENT.
HIS EXCITEMENT. HIS ABILITY.
HIS ABILITY. HE RAISED $80 MILLION IN A RACE
HE RAISED $80 MILLION IN A RACE AGAINST TED CRUZ.
AGAINST TED CRUZ. HE CULTIVATED A TON OF SMALL
HE CULTIVATED A TON OF SMALL DONORS.
DONORS. >> THAT’S A QUESTION ABOUT
>> THAT’S A QUESTION ABOUT WHETHER HE RAISED THE MONEY OR
WHETHER HE RAISED THE MONEY OR THE ANTI-TED CRUZ FACTION WAS
THE ANTI-TED CRUZ FACTION WAS THERE.
THERE. >> CHRIS, THAT’S A REALLY GOOD
>> CHRIS, THAT’S A REALLY GOOD QUESTION.
QUESTION. THERE IS A LOT OF METHODOLOGY
THERE IS A LOT OF METHODOLOGY AROUND THAT SENATE RACE THAT I
AROUND THAT SENATE RACE THAT I THINK WHAT IS IMPORTANT FOR
THINK WHAT IS IMPORTANT FOR DEMOCRATS AND PROGRESSIVES TO
DEMOCRATS AND PROGRESSIVES TO UNDERSTAND ABOUT BETO O’ROURKE,
UNDERSTAND ABOUT BETO O’ROURKE, WHAT DOES HE BELIEVE IN AND WILL
WHAT DOES HE BELIEVE IN AND WILL HE BE ABLE TO DO WHAT HE DID
HE BE ABLE TO DO WHAT HE DID AGAINST TED CRUZ IN A FIELD OF
AGAINST TED CRUZ IN A FIELD OF DEMOCRATS THAT ARE MUCH MORE
DEMOCRATS THAT ARE MUCH MORE POPULAR TO DEMOCRATS, OBVIOUSLY,
POPULAR TO DEMOCRATS, OBVIOUSLY, THAN TED CRUZ IS?
THAN TED CRUZ IS? THAT IS A QUESTION THAT’S
THAT IS A QUESTION THAT’S UNANSWERED.
UNANSWERED. IT MAY HAVE CAUSED HIM TO GIVE
IT MAY HAVE CAUSED HIM TO GIVE SOME PAUSE BEFORE HE JUMPED IN.
SOME PAUSE BEFORE HE JUMPED IN. >> AND YET THE CLUB FOR GROWTH,
>> AND YET THE CLUB FOR GROWTH, SUSAN, RELEASED A TWO-MINUTE
SUSAN, RELEASED A TWO-MINUTE LONG AD TARGETING O’ROURKE
LONG AD TARGETING O’ROURKE THAT’S GOING TO RUN IN IOWA.
THAT’S GOING TO RUN IN IOWA. WHAT DOES THAT TELL US ABOUT WHO
WHAT DOES THAT TELL US ABOUT WHO THE REPUBLICANS ARE WORRIED
THE REPUBLICANS ARE WORRIED ABOUT?
ABOUT? >> IT LOOKS LIKE THEY ARE
>> IT LOOKS LIKE THEY ARE WORRIED ABOUT BETO O’ROURKE.
WORRIED ABOUT BETO O’ROURKE. YOU KNOW, I THINK RIGHT NOW THE
YOU KNOW, I THINK RIGHT NOW THE REPUBLICANS ARE MONITORING THE
REPUBLICANS ARE MONITORING THE WHOLE FIELD.
WHOLE FIELD. BUT I UNDERSTAND WHY THEY ARE
BUT I UNDERSTAND WHY THEY ARE SCARED OF BETO.
SCARED OF BETO. I THINK HE IS RIGHT NOW SOMEONE
I THINK HE IS RIGHT NOW SOMEONE WHO POSES A REALLY INTERESTING
WHO POSES A REALLY INTERESTING CHALLENGE TO DONALD TRUMP NOT
CHALLENGE TO DONALD TRUMP NOT JUST BECAUSE HE DOESN’T FIT INTO
JUST BECAUSE HE DOESN’T FIT INTO THE TYPICAL BOX LIKE A U.S.
THE TYPICAL BOX LIKE A U.S. SENATOR OR GOVERNOR, BUT HE
SENATOR OR GOVERNOR, BUT HE DOESN’T REACT THE SAME WAY.
DOESN’T REACT THE SAME WAY. WHEN YOU WATCHED HIM IN THE
WHEN YOU WATCHED HIM IN THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL IN TEXAS HIS
CAMPAIGN TRAIL IN TEXAS HIS RESPONSES WEREN’T THE TYPICAL
RESPONSES WEREN’T THE TYPICAL POLITICAL RESPONSE THAT WE SEE.
POLITICAL RESPONSE THAT WE SEE. >> HE DOES NOT LOOK LIKE HE IS
>> HE DOES NOT LOOK LIKE HE IS ANSWERING EVERY QUESTION WITH A
ANSWERING EVERY QUESTION WITH A TALKING POINT.
TALKING POINT. >> AND THAT WILL RESONATE.
>> AND THAT WILL RESONATE. AND I THINK HE SEEMS VERY --
AND I THINK HE SEEMS VERY -- THAT IS THE AUTHENTICITY THAT HE
THAT IS THE AUTHENTICITY THAT HE BRINTS THAT
BRINTS THAT BRINGS THAT I THINK A LOT OF
BRINGS THAT I THINK A LOT OF OTHER DEMOCRATS DO NOT.
OTHER DEMOCRATS DO NOT. >> ALL RIGHT I WANT TO GO TO
>> ALL RIGHT I WANT TO GO TO WHAT’S HAPPENING RIGHT NOW
WHAT’S HAPPENING RIGHT NOW BECAUSE JOE BIDEN IS SPEAKING AT
BECAUSE JOE BIDEN IS SPEAKING AT THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF
THE INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF FIREFIGHTERS CONFERENCE.
FIREFIGHTERS CONFERENCE. I SHOWED YOU THAT SIGN, YOU
I SHOWED YOU THAT SIGN, YOU KNOW, WHEN IT SAID "RUN, JOE,
KNOW, WHEN IT SAID "RUN, JOE, RUN."
RUN." HE COMMENTED ON THAT.
HE COMMENTED ON THAT. >> YOU KNOW, I’D LIKE YOU ALL
>> YOU KNOW, I’D LIKE YOU ALL TO, I APPRECIATE THE ENERGY YOU
TO, I APPRECIATE THE ENERGY YOU SHOWED WHEN I GOT UP HERE.
SHOWED WHEN I GOT UP HERE. SAVE IT A LITTLE LONGER.
SAVE IT A LITTLE LONGER. I MAY NEED IT IN A FEW WEEKS.
I MAY NEED IT IN A FEW WEEKS. BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU WISH FOR.
BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU WISH FOR. >> OH, BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU WISH
>> OH, BE CAREFUL WHAT YOU WISH FOR, JONATHAN.
FOR, JONATHAN. >> SO THIS IS THE HEART OF JOE
>> SO THIS IS THE HEART OF JOE BIDEN’S BASE.
BIDEN’S BASE. THE HEAD OF THE FIREFIGHTERS
THE HEAD OF THE FIREFIGHTERS UNION HAS A LONG-TIME BIDEN MAN.
UNION HAS A LONG-TIME BIDEN MAN. SO HE IS GOING -- THIS IS HIS
SO HE IS GOING -- THIS IS HIS SORT OF LOG CABIN.
SORT OF LOG CABIN. YOU KNOW, THE PROBLEM --
YOU KNOW, THE PROBLEM -- >> YEAH, I THINK IT’S IMPORTANT
>> YEAH, I THINK IT’S IMPORTANT TO POINT OUT THAT THIS IS AN
TO POINT OUT THAT THIS IS AN ORGANIZATION THAT IS HEAVILY
ORGANIZATION THAT IS HEAVILY OFTEN REPUBLICAN.
OFTEN REPUBLICAN. 316,000 MEMBERS LEAN REPUBLICAN,
316,000 MEMBERS LEAN REPUBLICAN, BUT THE LEADERSHIP HAS OFTEN
BUT THE LEADERSHIP HAS OFTEN SUPPORTED A DEPUTY.
SUPPORTED A DEPUTY. I WONDER, AS YOU LOOK AT THAT,
I WONDER, AS YOU LOOK AT THAT, IS THIS THE JOE BIDEN WHO CANNOT
IS THIS THE JOE BIDEN WHO CANNOT ONLY GET CENTRIST DEMOCRATS BUT
ONLY GET CENTRIST DEMOCRATS BUT RALLY SOME OF THE DISAFFECTED
RALLY SOME OF THE DISAFFECTED TRUMP REPUBLICANS?
TRUMP REPUBLICANS? >> YES.
>> YES. HE IS ENORMOUSLY POPULAR WITH
HE IS ENORMOUSLY POPULAR WITH FIRST RESPONDERS, MANY OF WHOM
FIRST RESPONDERS, MANY OF WHOM YOU SAID VOTED FOR TRUMP.
YOU SAID VOTED FOR TRUMP. IF YOU GO BACK A FEW ELECTIONS,
IF YOU GO BACK A FEW ELECTIONS, THE FIREFIGHTERS HAVE BEEN WITH
THE FIREFIGHTERS HAVE BEEN WITH BIDEN BEFORE.
BIDEN BEFORE. THE PROBLEM IS WHEN HE HAS RUN
THE PROBLEM IS WHEN HE HAS RUN BEFORE, HE HASN’T DONE WELL.
BEFORE, HE HASN’T DONE WELL. FOR WHATEVER REASON, HE HAS NOT
FOR WHATEVER REASON, HE HAS NOT BEEN A SUCCESSFUL PRESIDENTIAL
BEEN A SUCCESSFUL PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATE IN THE PAST.
CANDIDATE IN THE PAST. NOT ONLY DID HE NOT GET THE
NOT ONLY DID HE NOT GET THE NOMINATION.
NOMINATION. HE DIDN’T EVEN GET OUT OF THE
HE DIDN’T EVEN GET OUT OF THE STARTING GATE IN THE PAST.
STARTING GATE IN THE PAST. AND WHEN YOU JUST SAW HIM JUST
AND WHEN YOU JUST SAW HIM JUST NOW, HE DOES LOOK A LITTLE BIT
NOW, HE DOES LOOK A LITTLE BIT WHAT YOU COULD CALL LOW ENERGY
WHAT YOU COULD CALL LOW ENERGY IF YOU WANTED TO USE A TRUMP
IF YOU WANTED TO USE A TRUMP INSULT.
INSULT. >> HE HAS ALREADY USED THAT FOR
>> HE HAS ALREADY USED THAT FOR JEB.
JEB. THAT’S TAKEN.
THAT’S TAKEN. >> HE ALSO HASN’T BEEN
>> HE ALSO HASN’T BEEN CHALLENGED IN SIX YEARS.
CHALLENGED IN SIX YEARS. THAT’S THE OTHER THING.
THAT’S THE OTHER THING. HE REALLY HASN’T BEEN.
HE REALLY HASN’T BEEN. >> BUT FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO
>> BUT FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE WHO WATCH HIM, AND THIS IS WHAT I
WATCH HIM, AND THIS IS WHAT I HEAR FROM REPUBLICANS AND
HEAR FROM REPUBLICANS AND DEMOCRATS, HE LOOKS LIKE THE BIG
DEMOCRATS, HE LOOKS LIKE THE BIG BOY, RIGHT?
BOY, RIGHT? HE IS SOMEBODY WHO GOES TO WORK
HE IS SOMEBODY WHO GOES TO WORK EVERY DAY, HAS BEEN IN THE ROOM.
EVERY DAY, HAS BEEN IN THE ROOM. THIS WAS NOT A VICE PRESIDENT
THIS WAS NOT A VICE PRESIDENT WHO JUST SAT BACK AND, YOU KNOW,
WHO JUST SAT BACK AND, YOU KNOW, GOT A BIG SCISSORS AND HAD
GOT A BIG SCISSORS AND HAD RIBBON CUTTINGS.
RIBBON CUTTINGS. HE WAS SOMEBODY WHO WAS ACTUALLY
HE WAS SOMEBODY WHO WAS ACTUALLY AT THE SIDE IN MANY CASES OF THE
AT THE SIDE IN MANY CASES OF THE CRITICAL ISSUES FACING BARACK
CRITICAL ISSUES FACING BARACK OBAMA.
OBAMA. >> ABSOLUTELY AND HE WASN’T
>> ABSOLUTELY AND HE WASN’T QUESTIONED BIGGER PEOPLE ON
QUESTIONED BIGGER PEOPLE ON THAT.
THAT. HE WAS WITH THE PRESIDENT.
HE WAS WITH THE PRESIDENT. I UNDERSTAND WHAT HE BRINGS TO
I UNDERSTAND WHAT HE BRINGS TO THE TABLE.
THE TABLE. I THINK HE WOULD BE A DEMOCRAT
I THINK HE WOULD BE A DEMOCRAT THAT A LOT OF MODERATE
THAT A LOT OF MODERATE REPUBLICANS WOULD SUPPORT.
REPUBLICANS WOULD SUPPORT. HOWEVER, I JUST WONDER HOW HE
HOWEVER, I JUST WONDER HOW HE DOES AGAINST OTHER DEMOCRATS
DOES AGAINST OTHER DEMOCRATS BECAUSE, AGAIN, NOT BEING
BECAUSE, AGAIN, NOT BEING CHALLENGED AND BEING ON ASTAGE
CHALLENGED AND BEING ON ASTAGE WITH TEN OTHER PEOPLE TAKING
WITH TEN OTHER PEOPLE TAKING SHOTS AT YOU --
SHOTS AT YOU -- >> AND MY CRACK TEAM WATCHING
>> AND MY CRACK TEAM WATCHING HIM RIGHT NOW SAID HE IS GETTING
HIM RIGHT NOW SAID HE IS GETTING FIRED UP.
FIRED UP. WE HAVE RUN OUT OF TIME.
WE HAVE RUN OUT OF TIME. LOOK AT HIM THERE.
LOOK AT HIM THERE. >> NOW HE IS NOT LOW ENERGY
>> NOW HE IS NOT LOW ENERGY ANYMORE.
ANYMORE. BUT YOU COULD MAKE AN ARGUMENT,
BUT YOU COULD MAKE AN ARGUMENT, CHRIS, THAT HE SHOULD SAY, YOU
CHRIS, THAT HE SHOULD SAY, YOU KNOW, HE’LL ONLY GO FOR ONE
KNOW, HE’LL ONLY GO FOR ONE TERM.
TERM. THAT WOULD PUT HIM IN A
THAT WOULD PUT HIM IN A DIFFERENT PLACE.
DIFFERENT PLACE. >> RUN, JOE, RUN, THEY’RE
>> RUN, JOE, RUN, THEY’RE CHANTING.
CHANTING. >> RUN, JOE, RUN!
>> RUN, JOE, RUN! RUN, JOE, RUN!
RUN, JOE, RUN! >> HE HASN’T, AS YOU POINTED
>> HE HASN’T, AS YOU POINTED OUT, ALWAYS HAD THE BEST
OUT, ALWAYS HAD THE BEST CAMPAIGNS IN THE PAST.
CAMPAIGNS IN THE PAST. THIS IS A RIGHT DECISION, IF YOU
THIS IS A RIGHT DECISION, IF YOU ARE SLOWLY ROLLING IT OUT, GO
ARE SLOWLY ROLLING IT OUT, GO BEFORE A FRIENDLY AUDIENCE LIKE
BEFORE A FRIENDLY AUDIENCE LIKE THIS, BUT THAT ALSO ISN’T SUPER
THIS, BUT THAT ALSO ISN’T SUPER PROGRESSIVE AND GET PEOPLE
PROGRESSIVE AND GET PEOPLE SHOUTING LIKE THAT.
SHOUTING LIKE THAT. WE DIDN’T GET TO TALK ABOUT